# N-body
We simulate the classical n-body problem, i.e. how do n massive object evolve in time, given some initial state, when the only acting force on them is gravity. This is a standard exercise for a Numerical Methods class and some interesting initial condtions can be found in `setup.pdf`. 

### Goals of this project:
 - get familiar with `boost/odeint`, professional ODE solver. For this, implement some simple ODE solvers (Explicit Euler, Explicit Midpoint, Velocity Verlet) using the `eigen`-library, and compare it to them.
 - test out Python's animation library. Seems interesting to visualize data that evolves in time. 

### Currently working on:
 - Need to rework how masses and the Gravitational constant are passed around. It works, but it's hacky and seems to cause trouble when one tries to run two consecutive simulations... This has probably something to do with the fact that both variables are defined as static. One might try to see if the problem can be solved by templating. Take a look at the example of odeint and how they handle it.
 - `ode/int` solution of the problem. 

### Things that still need to be done:
 - Tests! Currently there are no tests for the implementation... The results of the simulation seem fine, but we should probably make some basic analysis of the precision and how well it handels what kind of problems.
 - The implementation assumes in general that we are dealing with a 3D problem, i.e. that the phase space coordinates have the form (x,y,z,v_x,v_y,v_z). This is fine, but it needs to be documented to make sure that one can modify 2D problems to still be solvable with this implementation. One might solve this problem by reimplementing the naive solver using `point_type.hpp`.
 - Currently the data generated by `main.cpp` is saved in a `.txt`-file. This seems suboptimal... Since Python has a really nice H5D library see if you can save the data into a `.h5`-file.
